---
slug: evolution
date: 8/30/2021, 3:31:12 PM
title: The Blind Watchmaker
---

The 'Blind Watchmaker' is great, evolution is a general idea that you can see everywhere, it tickles your imagination. I've been trying to grasp at an explanation of our cognition through evolution.

> Why, for instance, are trees in forests so tall? ... There has been an arms race in which forest trees became larger as the generations went by. At every stage of the arms race there was no intrinsic benefit in being tall for its own sake. At every stage of the arms race the only point in being tall was to be relatively taller than neighbouring trees.

The imagery is of an ecosystem stuck in bizarre local optimums.

Why are humans anxious, mimetic, self-conscious, ego-defending, status-seeking? We have all this cognitive infrastructure to be similar to each other. He who was most similar to others was the most likely to survive.

These things were developed at a time when our lives were local--

> [our brains] are equipped to assess risks of things happening to us personally, or to a narrow circle of people that we know. This is because our brains didn't evolve under conditions dominated by mass media.

People are happy when they're in small towns and large families, of _course_ they are, because their brains are tuned for it. Instead of thinking of modern media as the harbinger of mental illness, think of mental illness as the set of cognitive punishments that were meticulously designed in humans to keep them happy in small groups. They were always there, just properly tuned.

Marley
8/30/2021, 4:21:15 PM
